---
title: "Competition"
author: Jess Brown
email: jess@brownwebdesign.com
---

Let's say you're an electrician and you run a small electrical
contracting company. There may be 1000's of other companies that offer
the same services, at the same prices, in the same turn around time,
with the same friendly smile as you do. The only difference? Only a few
are geographically close enough to the customer to do the job. 

A lot of small business benefit from a geographic advantage but most
technology companies (large or small) don't enjoy this benefit. Take
my consulting company Brown Web Design, for example. A local
entrepreneur could just as easily hire someone in Ohio as they could me
to develop software for their business. There's no real advantage to
being close. Another example: A business could just as easily use
software built and maintained in Australia as they could from people in
their home state. 

There are a few advantages, time zone and language. Time zone is not
that hard to work around, especially with people's acceptance of
asynchronous communication these days. Language is another topic. 

So the questions is, if you own a small company, how do you compete? How
do you market and network? How do you gain an advantage?

Well, first there are **some** geographic advantages to marketing and
networking. A developer in Ohio isn't likely to come to Atlanta to
attend the monthly Ruby meetup or Web Design group. So being visible at
local gatherings is a big benefit. Speaking at these gatherings is even
better.

Another idea I've been trying to wrap my head around (because I'm not
very good at it, but I see others doing it well) is the concept of
*virtual communities*. With the loss of some geographical advantage,
there's opportunity to be heard and seen in virtual communities. What
are some of those? They can be technology specific ("The Ruby
Community"), or business topic specific (the startup community,
enterprise, SMB's, etc) industry specific (accounting, manufacturing,
real estate). I not a google plus fan, but I like their term of circles.
If you're socially active, you have circles of friends and influence.
You might have an audience of social followers, blog readers, or email
subscribers. They're all potential areas of opportunity.

I'm not pointing out anything new. The crazy growth of marketing tools
to help companies reach these *virtual communities* like [Pardot][1],
[Google Adwords][2], [Mailchimp][3], [Hubspot][4] reveal that others are
doing online marketing with amazing success. 

So what's my point? If I have one I guess I'd be this: *Embrace the
competition and take advantage of opportunities provided online.*


[1]:http://www.pardot.com/
[2]:http://www.google.com/adwords
[3]:http://mailchimp.com/
[4]:http://www.hubspot.com/
