---
title: My Writing Process
author: Jess Brown
email: jess@brownwebdesign.com
---

I recently took on a [challenge][1] to write a blog post for every day of the
week for 30 straight week days. At the beginning of this year I had a
goal to write more. I started off writing a couple of posts per week,
but eventually faded to 1 per month. I probably don't have 30 blog posts
for the whole year, so how will I ever do 30 straight? 

<p class="text-center"><%= image_tag "blog/blog-waiting.jpg" %></p>

Well, so far I haven't found it too terribly difficult. For this post, I
wanted to briefly explain how I get from idea to published.

### Capturing Ideas

Once you know that you have to write that day and you know you need an
idea, they seem to start rolling in left and right. What experience do
you want to share, what did you find interesting, helpful, what problem
did you face, etc. The key is capturing all of these ideas and thoughts
as they arise. I mostly use [Evernote][2] to capture these things. I
create a tag called "blog idea" and tag each note with it. Evernote is
good for this because, you can pretty much capture anything: urls,
emails, photos, pdf's, voice memos, and just regular notes. Then once
you capture this media, be sure to jot down exactly what you're thinking
about when you have the idea. I've created plenty of notes that I opened
later and wouldn't have a clue what I was thinking when I wrote it.
Sometimes, if I'm at my computer, I go ahead and start the post, or at
least jot down the outline for it. Voice memos are great for when you
cannot write -- driving down the road, exercising, etc.

### Writing

I typically take a coffee break at 3.00PM or so each day and while I'm
sipping on my coffee, I do the [Pomodor Technique][3] (spend 25 minutes
of extreme focus) to write out a blog post. I usually don't worry too
much about details (spelling, grammar, etc) I just want to get the rough
draft written. 

### Review & Publishing

Either later that evening or first thing in the morning I'll review the
post. It's amazing how letting a little time go by and letting the words
sit will bring clarity to the article. I'll usually spend 10-25 more
minutes rearranging and getting it ready to publish. 

### Promoting

Once I publish the article, I'll share it through [Buffer][] so it'll
post to all my social accounts. Then I'll try to think of a person,
group, or organization that might benefit from my writing. For example,
if it's a Ruby topic, I'll send it to [Ruby Weekly][weekly] or just
recently my [accounting][] article was shared as a guest post on the
[LessAccounting][] blog. This has been a great way for me to gain so
readers and help folks at the same time.

I hope that helps! Happy Writing!





[1]:/blog/writing-challenge
[2]:https://evernote.com/
[3]:http://pomodorotechnique.com/
[Buffer]:https://bufferapp.com/
[weekly]:http://rubyweekly.com
[accounting]:/blog/independent-consultant-accounting
[LessAccounting]:https://lessaccounting.com/blog/personal-business-accounting-overview/
