---
title: "Job Title: Learner"
author: Jess Brown
email: jess@brownwebdesign.com
---

This morning I read a [Quora][1] question posted by a student who wanted
to learn Ruby on Rails, but wanted to know how easy or difficult it was
to get a rails job. 

I really like the response from a developer at Spotify. He said that
right now, it's easy to get a rails job and it pays competitively with
other like developer positions. 

However, he said you cannot hang your hat on any one technology. If you
want to be a great developer, you have to be prepared to learn
constantly.

> Constant learning is only behaviour that is guaranteed to get you
> hired at the best companies and to give you job security as a
> programmer. This is  common to all great and well-paid developers -
> develop a hunger for learning. Learn because it fascinates you, not
> because it will land you a job. Ironically, it is this attitude that
> WILL land you the best jobs, and give you security long-term.

I agree. When I started my company in 2008, I was constantly astonished
by the degree with which each project differed. I always told my wife,
*if I could just get one project that was like the last* we could really
make a profit. The truth is, even if you do get two projects that are
similar, if they are more than 6 months apart, some technology is going
to have a different "better" way of implementation. 

Now, that's not to say that experience doesn't account for anything. It
does in a big way. When you have to update a gem or software
version, the more experienced you are, the more quickly you'll adapt, but
**you'll never stop learning**. If you do stop learning, you're likely
going to get left behind. 

For the last few years, I've been extremely focused on rails and have
been reluctant to "play" with any other technologies or frameworks. I
didn't want anything to distract me from my focus on rails. Recently
however, as I've become a more mature rails developer and feel more
comfortable in that role, I've been wanting to branch out and learn some
new technologies. A few on at the top of my list are:

1. node.js
2. iOS
3. elixir

Which one should I pick?

[1]:http://www.quora.com/What-kind-of-jobs-can-i-get-with-Ruby-on-Rails
