---
title: A Day In The Life Of
author: Jess Brown
email: jess@brownwebdesign.com
---

One of my favorite creative / techonolgy magazines is [Offscreen][1].
They have a feature that I've seen in every issue called *A Day In The
Life Of*. 

<%= image_tag "blog/a-day-in-the-life-of.jpg" %>

It's a collection of several featured artists that describes what a
typical day looks like for them. The artists aren't necessarily popular
or famous, although some of them do work at high profile companies
(Google, Facebook, etc), but for some reason I find it really
interesting to read through. It must also be interesting for others too
since it continues to be in the magazine.

So here, I'm officially submitting my chronicle: ***A day in the life
of Jess Brown***

### Jess Brown

#### Independent Web Developer

6.00AM -- Things start early here. But, first things first...my wife is
nudging me out of the bed to start coffee.

6.15AM -- I work from home, so a quick walk up the stairs to my office
places me at my desk. I lead a Bible study group once a week, so I
begin the day in prayer, thought, and then begin preparation for the
next lesson.

6.45AM -- I check my email, calendar and moleskin to review the
tasks/projects for the day. I typically come up with an idea of when and
how I'll work on each project.

7.00AM -- Time to wake the kids up for school. I have a 3 and 7 year
old. I get them dressed and fed while mom gets herself ready.

8.00AM -- Mom and kids head off to school, while I head out on my bike.
Today I have planned what's usually a typical ride of around 2hrs.
Exercise is an important part of starting the day off right for me. 

10.15AM -- After a shower and a small snack, I'm back at my desk tackling
the plan I laid out earlier that morning. Today I'm monitoring the
relaunch of a client's app. They provide exercise programs for
university courses, and since most universities are on semester systems,
30-40% of annual sales will come in this week. We just upgraded to a new
server environment, so everyone is anxious to see how it handles the
rush.

1.00PM -- Aside from a few little tweaks, the new servers are handling
the load just fine. Since things seem under control, I'll grab a bite to
eat with my wife downstairs. We're pretty health conscious about what we
eat, so we end up cooking quite a bit, which means leftovers are usually
the only item on the menu.

1.30PM -- I'm back at my desk and am on a conference call with my
client. We discuss how things are progressing and discuss a few features
to implement that could make ordering a little easier for students. I
also work on set of other features that have been scheduled to be
integrated in the application. 

3.30PM -- Time for an afternoon coffee break. Today I'll use my
[AreoPress][2] and try out a new recipe I found. While I'm brewing, my
kids get home from school so I get to give them hugs and chat with them
a few minutes before heading back to my office with coffee. 

3.45PM -- I like to use my coffee time to either learn something new
(reading a book or article, following a tutorial, etc) or writing. Today
I'll be writing on my blog. Writing, and especially teaching through
writing is really rewarding. 

4.15PM -- Back to finish up the latter part of the workday. I'm
completing a few features I started earlier and after all my tests
show passing, I deploy to production. 

6.00PM -- I head down stairs to start dinner. There are no church or
school meetings or meetups tonight, so I get to relax spending time with
my family. Cooking, cleanup, and getting the kids in and out of showers
take up the bulk of the evening (kids are hard work :). 

8.30PM -- We have story time every night with the kids. Right now, we're
reading our second *Sammy Keys* book called *[Sammy Keyes and the Hotel
Thief][3]*. The adults even like this one! 

9.00PM -- It's lights out for the kids. I sit in my older son's room
while my wife is in the other. I have my laptop out, quietly checking
email and studying up on a new project. 

9.30PM -- My wife and I get to spend a little time to ourselves. Tonight
we're watching TV and we're currently in the middle of a really good
Netflix series called [*The Killing*][4]. 

10.30PM -- We're heading to bed and I wind down by reading a fiction
novel I'm about halfway through called *Battlefield Earth* (it's much
better than the movie). 

11.00PM -- ZZZ



[1]:http://www.offscreenmag.com/
[2]:http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0047BIWSK/ref=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=aerinc-20&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399369&creativeASIN=B0047BIWSK
[3]:http://www.amazon.com/Sammy-Keyes-Hotel-Wendelin-Draanen/dp/0679892648
[4]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Killing_(U.S._TV_series)
