---
title: Writing Challenge Update
author: Jess Brown
email: jess@brownwebdesign.com
---

A few weeks ago, I took a [blogging challenge][1] and I failed in my
goal of writing for 30 straight business days. I started on 9/1 and did
pretty good for 3 straight weeks, writing 15 blog posts in total. My
downfall was 2 weeks. My goal at the beginning of the challenge was to
write at least 1 case study / white page on a recent project we'd
completed. I figured it would take me about the same amount of writing 3
blog posts, so I set aside 3 days to complete it. 

I did start it and I did write for those three days, but there was just
too much to it all. I wanted to chronicle the step by step process we
took in redesigning the [www.montlick.com](http://www.montlick.com)
website. I had a lot of photos, screen shots, notes and sketches to pour
over. 

I'm still in the process of writing it and hope to publish it soon.

## Couple of lessons learned...

#### Consistancy is hard

Doing anything consistently is hard. If you really want to do something
consistently, you have to be truly dedicated to it...whether you're
exercising, dieting, working, or blogging.

#### Long term goals are more difficult to achieve

When I was blogging daily, it was easier to publish something. The goal
was clear, the end result was within grasp. I did fall behind once or
twice, but I didn't want to miss a day so I always caught up. By
contrast, the 3 days I spent writing the white paper was more ambiguous.
I wasn't sure how much I needed to complete each day. Also, the goal of
three days was not set in stone.

I liken this small example to working on creative projects, which are
notorious for being late and over budget. If an overall project deadline
is not set with milestones along the way, then there's usually a good
chance the project will drag on and on. I learned this early on in my
business. I'd have 2-3 larger projects to work on but also daily small
tasks on existing projects. It's so easy to take care of the small tasks
and forgo the dedication it takes to working on something due 3 months
away.

## Summary

Good habits are hard to form. Starting small and committing to be
consistant are key.

[1]:/blog/writing-challenge
