---
title: You Can Blog Too!
author: Jess Brown
email: jess@brownwebdesign.com
---

This evening I attended a local design meetup called
TransformAthens.  The topic was [Blogging and Your Future][2] and the
presenter was [John Saddington][3].  John is a well known proponent for
blogging and was there to encourage us to either start on keep going.

<%= image_tag "blog/saddington.jpg" %>

I [ recently started blogging ][4] and have found it to be much easier
than I feared it would be.  What would I write about?  Well, I had the
idea that whenever I learn something new, I'll blog about it.  Well,
that happens pretty much every day doing rails and web development.  So
anytime now that I have to look something up or research an issue, I'll
open up Evernote and make a few notes, save the urls or code snippets I
used, and save it for later on.  Then I'll write a blog post about it.
Sometimes, if it's a quick post, I'll just top working on the client
work and crank out the blog.

The other day, I recorded a screencast of me setting up a [ refinery cms
rails app and deploying to heroku ][5] and published it to my blog.  A
few days later, I had the idea to sending it to Peter Cooper who
publishes a popular Ruby newsletter called [Ruby
Weekly](http://rubyweekly.com/).  I didn't think there was any way he'd
publish it, but today Ruby Weekly was released and I about jumped
through the roof when I saw he published a link to my post.  

So there you have it...a quick success story of starting a blog,
actually publishing some posts and getting it picked up by a popular
industry newsletter.  I think I'm a believer!


[2]:http://www.meetup.com/transform-athens/events/159982002/
[3]:https://twitter.com/saddington
[4]:/blog/simple-rails-blogging-with-vim-markdown
[5]:/blog/install-refinerycms-and-deploy-to-heroku
