---
title: Working On Assembly Made
author: Jess Brown
email: jess@brownwebdesign.com
---
<% @large_photo = "blog/greenville-river.jpg" %>


### Assembly Made: What is it?

A month or so ago I found out about a cool new platform called [Assembly
Made][1]. The idea is pretty simple and works like this: Someone has an
idea for a business and they post it to Assembly Made. The idea gains
traction and popularity by people discussing the business plan, market,
potential, customers, etc. Then, if there's enough interest, the
community starts to develop it. Almost anyone can contribute. Apps need
all sorts of skills to be built: copyrighting, photography, design,
code, ops, etc. A core team is established to provide direction and
create tasks for the project. Each task is valued a certain amount of
"coins" and when someone completes the task, they are awarded the
coins. The amount of coins you have for a project determine your equity
stake in the business and also determine your share in the profit
sharing system. Assembly keeps 5% of the equity and the project owner is
reserved 5% of the equity. The rest is earned by the contributors.

This is really an interesting idea and I can't wait to see how it will
play out as new products are built and launched. No one knows how
successful (or not) this concept of crowd sourcing the development of
software will be. As with any business, especially a startup, many of
these businesses could fail and never get a single customer. So is it
worth your time? I think so and here's why.

#### Working with great people

There are some great people working on Assembly products. If you've
never worked on a team or just want to get some experience with the
experienced, then this is an easy way to to do it. 

#### Learning

Whenever you work with other people, especially with others as good or
better than your own skill level, then you're learning shoots through
the roof. I always learn so much working others.

#### It's easy to get started

It's really easy to get started. The Assembly staff is always around to
answer questions, hop on chat, screenshare, pair, help you get setup
etc. They also do a good job of breaking down tasks so they're small
enough that anyone can get started. Example: anyone can edit copy,
right? And once you get started, the next tasks are much easier.

#### Working with actual projects

As a consultant, most of my experience is with building products for
clients. I love open source and think it's very important to contribute
and give back, but it's never been easy for me and probably others too.
Lots of open source projects are tools, libraries, gems, engines, etc
that are a lot more complicated than 90% of a typical rails app. So I
found working with a actual product (which, in my observation, is what
the majority of Assembly projects are) more up my alley.

#### Work at your own pace / commitment level

Because the tasks are broken down in to small stories, it's really easy
to work a little or a lot. Some weeks I have more time than others and
can spend a whole day working on Assembly. Other weeks I only have a few
hours and some weeks, I have no time at all. When you decide to work on
a task, there's a button that click "work on this task" that reserves it
so others know you're working on it. Only reserve a task when you're
ready to work on it and can get it done in a reasonable time, because
there could be others that are able and willing to get it done too.

#### Boost your portfolio

If you're a creative, your portfolio is crucial in helping you win
projects, clients, or jobs. Adding projects you've worked on from
Assembly will likely bring the status and allure of your portfolio up.
Clients will be impressed with the work that you and you team have
produced and may be more willing to hire you for your next big project.
All projects are open sourced, so it's easy to share your contributions.

#### Connections / Networking

Already mentioned is working with others to improve your skills, but
working with others will also lead to new relationships, friendships,
connections and networking opportunities. If you're a developer, a
designer may notice your work and want to work with you on their next
project. An entrepreneur may notice your feedback on discussions and
want to hire you for their next project. A core team member may
recommend you for a job within their company. Assembly is a great place
to meet and work with other creatives like you.

### Summary

In addition to all of the "side" benefits, I do like the core product.
There's a simple profit sharing plan, contributions are automatically
calculated when commits are merged in, and it's a nice way to invest in
startups and take ownership of a business.

A few weeks ago I joined a friend from Atlanta, [Patrick Van Stee][2]
(who works for Assembly) and we drove to Greenville, SC to join up with
[Matthew Smith][3] to work on one of the Assembly projects called
[Helpful][4] (now you know where the photo above came from :-) Besides
being a fun "work" trip, it was a great opportunity to work with Patrick
(who is a talented developer) and Matthew (a well known and talented
designer). Had it not been for Assembly, I probably would have never
gotten the chance.

Go checkout [Assembly][1] and find something to work on!


[1]:http://www.assemblymade.com
[2]:https://twitter.com/vanstee
[3]:https://twitter.com/whale
[4]:https://helpful.io
